source: https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/document/questions-and-answers/100q.pdf
rev 1/19
Civics Questions for the 65/20 Exemption

The Immigration and Nationality Act provides for special consideration of the civics test for applicants who, at the time of filing their Form N-400, Application for Naturalization, are over 65 years old and have been a permanent resident for at least 20 years. These applicants qualify to take the civics test in the language of their choice. They are also given special consideration as they are only required to study 20 of the 100 civics test questions for the naturalization test.


question: What is one right or freedom from the First Amendment?
answer: speech
type: Principles of American Democracy

question: What is the economic system in the United States?
answer: capitalist economy
type: Principles of American Democracy

question: Name one branch or part of the government.
answer: Congress
type: System of Government

question: What are the two parts of the U.S. Congress?
answer: the Senate and House (of Representatives)
type: System of Government

question: Who is one of your state's U.S. Senators now?
answer: Chuck Shumer
type: System of Government

question: In what month do we vote for President?
answer: November
type: System of Government

question: What is the name of the President of the United States now?
answer: Donald Trump
type: System of Government

question: What is the capital of your state?
answer: Albany
type: System of Government

question: What are the two major political parties in the United States?
answer: Democratic and Republican
type: System of Government

question: What is one responsibility that is only for United States citizens?
answer: serve on a jury
type: Rights and Responsibilities

question: How old do citizens have to be to vote for President?
answer: eighteen (18) and older
type: Rights and Responsibilities

question: When is the last day you can send in federal income tax forms?
answer: April 15
type: Rights and Responsibilities

question: Who was the first	President?
answer: (George) Washington
type: Colonial Period and Independence


question: What was one important thing that Abraham Lincoln did?
answer: freed the slaves (Emancipation Proclamation)
type: 1800s

question: Name one war fought by the United States in the 1900s.
answer: World War II
type: Recent American History and Other Important Historical Information

question: What did Martin Luther King, Jr. do?
answer: fought for civil rights
type: Recent American History and Other Important Historical Information

question: What is the capital of the United States?
answer: Washington, D.C.
type: Geography

question: Where is the Statue of Liberty?
answer: New York (Harbor)
type: Geography

question: Why does the flag	have 50	stars?
answer: because there are 50 states
type: Symbols

question: When do we celebrate Independence Day?
answer: July 4
type: Holidays
 
